By definition, stimulus either means fiscal stimulus, referring to additional consumption/spending induced by direct government spending or lowering taxes, or monetary stimulus, referring to lowering interest rates or increasing the money supply through central bank lending policies. Stimulus does not have anything meaning with respect to "benefitting the average American." Defense spending in colloquial usage regarding lucrative contracts or federally managed programs thus is fiscal stimulus.

If the question is more on if defense spending increases the welfare of the median American, whether that be measured through GDP/capita, real hourly wage, or some other metric, it is hard to isolate all the effects of various defense spending policies throughout WWII to today. A good question is to ask about the opportunity cost of such defense spending--absent this spending occurring, would the government allocate the expenditures to another program or reduce expenditures overall and how would that affect the median income of an American worker?

One concept that is not perfect but has some proponents is the "fiscal multiplier", which is essentially the estimated ratio of money spent on some government policy to the amount increase in nominal GDP (or GNI). There is a plethora of economic literature on comparing the fiscal multiplier of different policies under all kinds of assumptions, but almost all the time in the current context, direct cash transfers to the lower classes tends to have the highest multiplier.

In general as a biased observer, I would say it's easy to say overall that the GWB admin, including the billions spent regarding Afghanistan and Iraq, had an overall worse outcome on the vast majority of Americans, and that alternative policies would have done better, but isolating the effects of defense appropriations across the income/demographic spectra of the populace is something difficult to answer. There are probably some smart people somewhere that have done the research to find some semblance of conclusions there though.

Mao himself and his policies were instrumental in funding the Khmer Rouge uprising through the 70s--over 90% of the aid they received was from China at the time, and the Cambodian Genocide was literally based on Mao-era policies and assisted by CCP officials. There is no reason to think that if Mao lived longer he wouldn't have definitely supported Cambodia over Vietnam in 1978, and my original comment is on the general comparison of the USSR backing (North) Vietnam and the PRC backing (Khmer Rouge-faction) Cambodia during the whole relevant period from the 50s to the 80s.

The gang of four and Deng continued the backing of Cambodia over Soviet-influenced Vietnam, but I'm inclined to believe that the failure of this is what led China to a relative thaw in aggressive foreign policy afterwards. Will admit my historical understanding here is not close to perfect though.

Of course, this is completely irrelevant if you want to believe the weird conspiracy that post-Mao China only wanted to support Cambodia over Vietnam in 1978 to get-in with the US (since Deng is an "impure capitalist" or something), despite this view completely ignoring history before 1978 and the PRC literally backing recognizing the Khmer Rouge first and the US literally trying (in maybe not the most productive ways) to stop the Khmer Rouge takeover in the early 70s.

Sukarno after 1959 was definitely authoritarian (title asks "dictator/authoritarian"), and so was Nasser. I never claimed they were dictators.

Condominiums exist, and plenty of families have built generational wealth from them. Given your Rhode Island avatar, you should be well aware of how important historical triple decker multi-family housing was for RI's communities up from the 19th to early 20th centuries. Although triple deckers obviously had many issues with shady landlords, before the era of urban renewal it was not uncommon at all for triple deckers to be owner-occupied (with unused floors used by extended family or rented other community members), or condominium style, with one family owning each floor.

Even today, it is generally lower-income immigrant groups in the Northeast pooling funds to own a multifamily unit (~22 % of RI foreign-born homeowners, the highest in the nation, are part of a 2-4 unit multifamily property, compared to the national average well below 3%, and this doesn't count 2nd+ gens and ADOS representation here). To be not cognizant of this coming from RI is odd.

But regardless of how traditional multifamily stock operated in New England, I've always struggled with the notion of "homeownership builds wealth" as a viable economic model. In a world where metropolitan region population increase outpaces housing supply and societal trends foment greater square footage per person, I can't help but think that the "homeownership builds wealth" notion means "housing becomes unaffordable."

Now it might be common these days to then say the lack of housing supply is due to private equity or malicious foreign investors buying up all the homes, but statistically these entities barely register compared to the total housing stock. Aside from a few specific settings that definitely should be shamed (NY's Billionaire Row), these investors do put such units on the rental market (otherwise why would they want to lose rent revenue?)---and it's not like rents are going down, which shows how little impact these investors really have. The solution really is just to build more housing.

I think all the tiktok fear-mongering and foreign propaganda claims are failing to see the whole picture of gen-Z, and that in general most polling has shown gen-Z to be modestly more ignorant generation than previous generations at that age.

But why this this the case? One thing I'm surprised few in the Atlas discussions on this topic have mentioned is learning loss from poorly implemented remote-schooling.

The PISA 2022 international exam results for 15 year olds (not directly measuring 18-29 as in the topic poll, but same trend) have recently been released (link), and show that compared to 2018, mean reading scores in OECD nations have fell 10 points, math scores 15 points, and science scores 2 points. This is on a scale with standard deviation 100 points, but distributional mean shifts have strong affects on the tail end (i.e. proportion of students who test below a threshold can increase multiple fold with small mean shift). The 18-29 cohort is full of students with on average a year loss of high school, college, post-graduate schooling, and/or career experience even if on paper they still have the same credentials, and losing the opportunity to learn important synthesis skills in these settings undoubtedly made a measurable amount of younger adults simply less knowledgeable about the world.

However, the decline of OECD PISA performance actually seems to have started around the year 2010, rather than just recently. This is an area where it seems social media has a significant impact. A deeper look into the results (page 36 here) shows that using digital devices at school more than 1 hour for recreation and more than 5 hours for learning (e.g. fully digital school) is correlated to worse mathematics performance. It also shows that 0 hours for both recreation and learning have very poor results, so assuming proper controls, digital learning (and even short reprieves apparently) have a place in schools. I think it as profoundly ignorant to only focus on tiktok though. Instagram reels content and algorithms are undoubtedly not that different.

I'm well aware and glad of the modern trend in economics toward empiricism, and I am personally a fervent advocate of such successes in international development by economists like Nobel laureates Kremer, Duflo, and Banerjee. All I wanted to say is that these empirics are still derived on quantifiable measurements, e.g. a randomized control trial shows that all forms of cash transfer to parents/guardians in Mexico are pretty much equivalent in the vast majority of cash being directly used to pay for secondary school.

Maybe I was missing some context, but the example on trucks you provided do not seem to state the necessary assumptions that:
the vast majority of U-haul trucks do come from plants also designed to manufacture trucks with detachable cabs
the cost of removing the rear-view mirror part from the assembly line is greater than the costs of the mirrors themselves
Perhaps you zero'd in on my usage of "mathematics" when I really just meant sufficient assumptions and basic quantitative reasoning; it would be unfair to assume the above two points without any quantitative evidence.

This may be an oversimplification, but to me it feels natural that if one accepts the irreducibility of consciousness and the "hard" problems around that, along with the fact that physical objects are ontologically real (i.e. a tree falling in a forest with no one to hear does actually exist and that emergent relationships in our modeled physical world are not coincidences ontological to mental state relationships), then dualism is attractive. I am also not entirely convinced that the parsimoniousness of idealism is necessarily preferable; its own simplicity makes it so that idealism must deal with counterfactual arguments on needing to deny the real existence of physical objects. (I guess it is possible to deny that counterfactual argumentation is itself legitimate when discussing metaphysics, but that sounds weirdly going towards extreme positivism.)

While I enjoy Bourdain generally, he is certainly no historical authority, and this notion that US intervention in Cambodia was some secret shadow invasion of a neutral country that has arisen over time is simply not true.

The American intervention in the Cambodian Civil War was in the vein of the same containment policy to assist the Khmer Republic against the Khmer Rouge insurgency primarily supported by Maoist China and secondarily supported by the North Vietnam/USSR block. The two factions within the war were certainly not neutral at all before direct US involvement, and the Khmer Rouge asked North Vietnam in 1970 to help intervene in their insurgency which quickly captured the eastern half of the nation. The US involvement was also not some secret thing at all, as the Paris Peace Accords in 1973 extensively dealt with Laos and Cambodia, in addition to Vietnam (and it would be the Khmer Rouge that violated cease-fire calls that included pauses in US operations).

Now this does not mean containment itself has strong moral, ethical, or legal justification, nor does it mean that trying to help the erratic and authoritarian Lon Nol in Cambodia against the Khmer Rouge was a good idea at all. And this also doesn't mean that the way in which the US carried out bombing operations was effective at all---some historians contend these bombings are what allowed Khmer Rouge to actually gain popular support within Cambodia. But these sort of critiques are applicable to so much more of the Cold War and plenty of other parties, including local third-world parties as well.

The millions of lives lost and sufferings of peoples tell the stories of these unethical decisions by the US and other factions, and Cambodia today is justified for hating Kissinger's guts. But to frame Kissingerian foreign policy as throwing Cambodia to the dogs is disingenuous. Unlike broad arguments that the "US helped cause the rise of ISIS," the Khmer Rouge was always foreign-influenced and not some native reaction against US imperialism.

Speaking way past my pedigree:

I would disagree with the seeming lack of connection from Wilsonianism after WWI and Liberal Internationalism post WWII. There is a pretty obvious connection from the isolationism of Cabot Lodge Sr. and other Republicans at the time torpedoing the Treaty of Versailles to that Bob Taft Sr. opposing lend-lease and entry into the UN, all within the paleo-conservative tradition of nativism and protectionism (Smoot Hawley, etc.). The Democratic foreign policy tradition at the time was obviously not ideologically aligned, but the strand of Wilsonian Idealism would remain heavily influential within much of the national leadership. Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover all wanted to join the League of Nations version of the International Court of Justice but were stymied by isolationist opposition in the Senate. FDR would choose Cordell Hull, who while in Congress was an devout Wilsonian and was perhaps one of the most prominent advocates in trade liberalization through multilateral organizations, as his Secretary of State in 1933. (Hull would become the "architect of the UN" after the war also.)

It's not just a coincidence that FDR's administration had strong sympathies towards an international liberal order, even before WWII. Historian David Kennedy contends that every president after Wilson has "embraced the core precepts of Wilsonianism," so I think this to be a situation where much of the populace at the time, reflected in congress, was not swayed by international idealism, but the "east coast elite" always remained committed.

I would still rate Wilson neutral or tilt-HP considering the large blemish of race in his domestic legacy, but I agree with Antonio that somehow much modern American discourse has lost the understanding Wilson's well-documented foreign policy influence.

[Long effort post incoming]

I think that most of the Pacific Super Typhoons are likely as strong as recorded even if using Dvorak.

Interpreting Dvorak with updated modern knowledge is complicated, but a good rule of thumb at high intensities is that a long-lasting persistent very warm and dry eye with at thick CDO is highly suggestive of an extremely intense tropical cyclone with the possibility of Dvorak underestimation, and the opposite (when the eye is not as persistently warm) is generally indicative of Dvorak overestimation. For example, Dorian (2019) and Irma (2017) are notorious for being underestimated on the scale of > 20 knots by Dvorak, and they respectively had eye temperatures of 21.47 and 19.49 deg C according to ADT. Here, only a few pixels of white and light grey in the middle means that Eta has an eye temperature of 0-10 deg C (peaked at 10.53 according to ADT), and these positive Celsius eye temperatures only lasted for < 6 hours. Eta's Dvorak hitting 7.0 (and raw ADT even getting close to 8.0) despite recon showing a strong Cat 4 can be explained by it being late November and Eta being low latitude, two factors that both contribute to a lower tropopause and thus very inflated coldness of cloud-tops.

The WPAC basin year after year produces typhoons with 7.0+ Dvorak T numbers that stay "picturesque" for much longer with eyes that don't look borderline at all (which is honestly expected, as there is just a much larger area of water deeper and warmer than the Atlantic). What gives me the most confidence that WPAC typhoons are not being over-estimated is the previous reconnaissance missions prior to the 1987 (which are still really the gold mine in terms of data on the strongest TCs), and their longevity of high-intensity structures. In 2022, Nanmadol (155 mph/917 mb as per JTWC) had an eye temperature of >20 deg C for more than 12 hours, and Noru (160 mph/919 mb) had a ~9 hour period of such. I'd personally guess that Noru was pretty close to the real accuracy, and Nanmadol was actually underestimated.

Edit: Higher tropopause for Eta, but same reasoning, oops.

Economics is a social science and not a hard science. The inherent "goodness" of an economic policy is not well-defined; any objective function one decides for an AI to optimize could be favorable under one ethical schema but unfavorable under another. Economics as a field is meant to discuss both theoretical and empirical trade-offs and correlations under specific market assumptions to produce recommendations.

If we want to narrow the scope to say profit maximization for a specific firm under a set of specific circumstances, or maximum arbitrage margin for a specific commodity within a specific market configuration, AI functions the same as any statistical model under such circumstances. The traditional/standard view might favor vanilla statistics for its explainability, while an AI-favorable view might value the potential better optimization while being unconcerned with black-box properties. But this is not making policy decisions at the national level with huge degrees of uncertainty and no definitive exact objective.

Contrary to your perception, I wouldn’t be surprised if current Scotus ruled 9-0 against Desantis. Ramos v. Louisiana, which decided for broader defendant protections than what is needed here, was decided 6-3, with the dissenting opinion mostly based on stare decisis of previous 70s era cases.

Gorsuch, Kavanaugh, and Thomas were part of that 6, and that plus the 3 liberals makes 6 already (Kagan previously dissented due to stare decisis, but that swings the other way this time). I’d expect Roberts to swing in favor of the majority against Desantis as well due to posturing and stare decisis again, and ACB seems to posture herself as lockstep with Roberts. The justice I’m the least sure about is Alito, but lone dissenters are quite rare.

But to even get past an appeals court would be a hard enough task for the Desantis team in my opinion.

